# 8 Puzzle Game

## Summary

8 Puzzle problem is a simple version of [15 Puzzle problem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/15_puzzle).
This project offers a pretty graphic user interface, allowing the players an engaging way to solve the scrambled title puzzle.

## Requirements

The requirements are:

- CMake 3.14 or better; 4.0+ highly recommended
- A C++23 compatible compiler ([gcc](https://gcc.gnu.org/) or [llvm](https://llvm.org/))
- Git
- Raylib (will be downloaded if not present)
- Slidr (will be downloaded if not present)
- Conda/Miniconda (optional, highly recommended)
- Doxygen (optional, highly recommended)

## Instructions

To configure:

```bash
cmake -S . -B build
```

Add `--toolchain=./<your_toolchain_file>.toolchain` if you want to use your own toolchain.

Add `-GNinja` if you have Ninja.

To build:

```bash
cmake --build build
```

To launch the app:

```bash
./build/apps/app
```

## 



## Notes

### `std::generate` vs. For Loop

`std::generate` was introduced in C++17 as a way to assign elements in range $[first, last)$ with a value generated by a policy (usually a lambda function). This method is used to generate confetti.
A comparison is done to compare the speed to initialize 2,000 elements of **confetti** between using `std::generate` and a for loop.

Here is the result:

|               ns/op |                op/s |    err% |     total | Constructors    |
|--------------------:|--------------------:|--------:|----------:|:-------------   |
|          146,230.71 |            6,838.51 |    0.8% |      0.89 | `For Loop`      |
|          139,168.11 |            7,185.55 |    0.5% |      0.83 | `std::generate` |

As the table suggests, using `std::generate` is faster than a traditional for loop.

### Aggregate and Explicit Initialization

An aggregate is a class-type that has no user-defined constructor.
Such as this one:

```cpp
struct Vector
{
    int x;
    int y;
    std::string name;
};
```

Before C++20, one can only initialize an aggregate with the same order listed in the aggregate.
In this case, it is okay to do:

```cpp
Vector v {2, 3, "a"};
```

But it is illegal if you only want to initialize *y* without initializing *x*.
And it is also illegal to initialize the member element in a random order.

Since C++20, one can initialize elements explicitly.
So this becomes legal and it is clearer for others to read:

```cpp
Vector v {.y = 14, .name = "b"};
```

The value of *x* will be 0 (since no value is provided, 0 is the default value), *y* will be 14, and *name* will be *b*.

## Reference

- [raylib](https://www.raylib.com/)
- [Aggregate and Explicit Initialization](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/aggregate_initialization.html)
